Okay.
So let's write a test suite for our spotlight component.
And the core heart of what we want to test is that the Spotlight component passes these pieces of information
to the parent component.
So let's begin by creating our test file right here in our tests directory components job search.
I will create my spotlight test duchess file.
I'm going to drag it over on the right hand side and we'll begin by importing mount from our test library,
which is vue test utils.
Then I'm going to import Axios and mock it out.
Because remember, when we mount our spotlight component, it's going to make this request right here.
And I want to intercept or mock out that request and resolve that promise to return some mock data from
my test that decouples me from having to build the back end in my test.
So right here, this is the exact same logic we've talked about earlier.
In the course, I'm going to import Axios from Axios.
And then immediately below, I'm going to do just that mock passing in Axios.
So this will force just to iterate over the properties on the Axios imported object and replace all
of them with just mock functions.
Then I want to import the component I'm testing.
So import spotlight from the source directory components job search spotlight type view.
We're going to create a described block for Spotlight, and I think I'm actually going to write a test
for each individual property that I am going to pass up to my parent component.
So right here, it provides image attribute to parent component.
And if I wanted this to be a little bit more user focused, I can just say something like provides information
about image to parent, something that is a little less technical than using the words IMG and being
specific about the object and its attributes.
Again, I'm just going to ignore this for now, but if you want to write a more user focused description,
feel free to do that.
So right here I'm going to provide an arrow function.
And the first thing I want to do is actually to mark out my get method because remember when just mock
out a module, it replaces everything with a just mock function that returns undefined.
I need to have an asynchronous just mock function that resolves to be an object that resembles the Axios
response object.
So right here, as always, I'm going to reference Axios target and I'm going to invoke mock resolve
value on that just mock function.
And that's going to allow it to emulate an async function that returns or resolves to this value.
And this is going to be an object.
And just like the just response object, it's going to have a data property.
And here I can provide an array.
And in that array I can provide a sample spotlight object.
So for example, I can have an object with an IMG property set to some image.
It doesn't actually have to be a real URL of any image because for the purposes of testing what spotlight
is doing, it doesn't really care.
It just passes this property and this string value up to the parent.
It doesn't actually have to be an image string.
So right here, title as another example of a property.
I'm going to give it the value of some title and below description.
So again, what I'm doing here is simply replacing the API call right here.
So the test will notice when I'm using Axios target and will give it an asynchronous function that will
resolve to this object.
So then we're going to get access to the data property, which is going to be this array, and this
will become the value of this spotlight's data attribute in my spotlight component, allowing me to
test the component as if it just received an API response of one spotlight object.
Okay, so after I mark this out, what I'm going to do is create my wrapper.
So I'm going to mount.
My Spotlight component, and I'm going to provide my second argument, which is my configuration object.
And as we know by now, in order to provide slots, we have to use the slots property.
So right here we're going to do slots.
That's going to be an object.
And the properties in this object are these slot names.
In this case, we have a single slot.
So Vue has given it the name of default.
So here I want to target the default slot.
And I want to provide a string with the HTML that I want to inject into that slot content as if I were
a parent component.
So what I'm actually going to do here to enable me to write this content across several lines is I'm
going to use E6 template strings.
The advantage of this is we can do line breaks very easily in them.
And so I'm just going to create the kind of parent component that I would need in order to be able to
render this slot information.
So just like we saw in the implementation, we're going to need a template tag.
And we're also going to need to close it off so I can do a line break like so.
And we, of course, need to reference our specific slots so we can either do V slot in default or we
can simply do hashtag default, which is the preferred approach.
And then we provide our equal sign and or quotes.
And here's where we assign a name to the object with all the slot props that viewer's going to give
us.
So I'm just going to follow the convention we've had throughout the course, and I'm just going to call
it slot props.
Although as we saw, the name is up to us.
So this is the object that is going to have IMG and title and description properties if everything is
correctly configured as far as our Axios response and our implementation here.
So in this template, it's really up to me whatever I want to write.
So I'm just going to put an H1.
And I'm going to use the view interpolation syntax in order to provide the value of slot props dot img.
So basically I'm simply trying to render the string of the IMG property in the real world.
We binded this to the source attribute of an image, but for the purposes of testing this, we don't
really care because the parent just cares that it gets this information.
It doesn't care how it uses it, right?
So what I can do below is I can simply test that somewhere in my wrappers text I see the value of some
image which is the expected value of the image property on the slot props object I'm iterating over,
which is coming from our mock response.
So right here I'm going to say expect somewhere in my wrappers text that I should match or see a substring
equal to some image.
So if everything worked as expected, we are going to market our response, our component is going to
save it.
Spotlight's data property to be this array.
It's going to iterate over this array of one spotlight.
It's going to do that with V four.
It's going to create a slot content area and pass in the properties on this object up to the parent.
So my parent is going to get IMG title description, I'm going to render IMG and then expect that whatever
text I get here is displayed for the parent to see, right?
So actually enabled in order for this to work, we're going to need to do an additional two lines of
code.
You may recall that whenever we do an asynchronous request inside a test, we need to make sure it completes
and resolves and that our component updates with those changes.
And in order to do that we use the flush promises function from Vue test utils.
We do that after any asynchronous operation.
So right here I'm going to do flush promises.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to await the completion of flush promises.
This is going to ensure that my promise right here, represented by my Axios get method, resolves that
it's done completing.
Because otherwise it's possible that this could still be running technically while we mount our component
and thus we're not going to register the changes of this response in our component.
And thus the properties text will not update because this data from our mock marking out of the back
end, it will not be there yet.
Right.
So if we're going to await this promise, because it is our this function, because it itself returns
a promise, we need to make sure to make this an asynchronous test function.
All right.
So I'm going to save that.
And I'm going to open up my terminal.
And for some weird reason it showed up on my right side.
So let me see if I can drag it over here.
I seem to forgot how to do this.
Give me 1/2 to fix this.
Okay, so apologies for that.
My terminal is now on the bottom of my screen, so I'm going to run and PM run, test, call and watch
and we'll see if we're able to catch the new test.
And everything is passing.
And just to make sure that this is properly testing what I wanted to test, what I'm going to do, of
course, is remove this line from my spotlight component and that will verify that it doesn't exist.
So my test should predictably fail because we're now not going to pass that image pop up to my parent.
So when I save this, we should get a failure.
And that's exactly what we expect.
Our parent component is expecting to see some text, some image which it's getting from the property
right here and rendering.
But it's now not getting that because we're not providing the slot prop to the parent.
So that verifies that everything is working as expected.
So I'm going to return that prop right here.
And then what I'm basically going to do is create two similar tests for the title attribute or the title
property and the description property or attribute or prop, whatever you want to call it.
So for the most part, I can keep the exact same test set up.
I'm just going to need to alter what's going on right here.
So I'm going to copy this entire test right here.
And paste it down below.
For my second test, I want to say that it does not provide the image attribute but the title attribute
to parent component.
You can also use the word prop instead of attribute.
So right here, instead of interpolating the image prop, I want to interpolate the value of the title
prop and that should be a text that includes some title right here.
All right.
Save that.
That's still going to pass.
Then one more test below.
Once again, I'm going to paste the test from above.
And the final attribute we care about is the description attribute to the parent.
I'm going to keep the setup of the Mac, going to keep this setup of the mounting of the spotlight.
Except right now we don't want to render the image prop.
We want to interpolate the value of the description.
And that means the wrappers text should contain the text, some description.
Save that.
And there we go.
We're now testing that the child component of Spotlight is correctly feeding up the values of the those
three props image, child description, and that the parent component is properly doing something with
them and getting them.
And we're verifying that in a very component centric, user centric way, which is verifying that the
text that those properties have is being displayed within the actual component.
This is the simplest way to kind of force a rendering of that data.
It's a lot more complicated.
If we were to use V bind, for example, to bind some attribute like IMG, it's much easier to just
come up with the simplest test we can when we render that slot prop and make sure that the child is
correctly communicating with the parent.
Right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in next one.